Good afternoon, everyone.
My name is Alex Rofman.
I hope everyone's having
a great day today.
I manage a team of people back
in Cupertino whose responsibility
it is to help you as developers
be successful on the App Store.
So I'll kick off our lunchtime
session today with some tips
and tricks to help you do so.
And then I'll pass it
off to my colleague,
Steve McGuigan, who will talk to you
about marketing your apps.
And then our colleague, Shannon Bruce,
will conclude the session with some
tips and tricks on iTunes Connect.
So let's get started.
First thing I want to cover
is a quick business update.
2013 has been a tremendous
year for the App Store.
In May,
the 50 billionth app was downloaded.
And then October,
just a short while ago at our iPad event,
we announced that our 60
billionth app has been downloaded,
nearly half of which happened
in the prior 12 months.
So there's tremendous momentum
behind the App Store business.
In June,
at our annual developers conference,
we announced that $10 billion
had been paid out to developers.
And then again,
at our iPad event in October,
we announced that that total
had grown to $13 billion.
And this is probably the statistic we're
most proud of for a number of reasons.
First, none of the competitive platforms
out there have announced a single
figure about how much you as
developers are making distributing
your apps on their platforms.
So this is something that
we're extremely proud of,
as I said.
and we hope you are as well.
And then lastly, the App Store celebrated
its fifth birthday in July.
I joined the team in July of 2009.
That was 59 billion downloads ago and
billions and billions of dollars ago.
It's really incredible to think that this
business is only five years old and we
hope you're as excited as we are about
what the next five years might bring.
The App Store has more
than 575 million accounts,
most of which are tied to credit cards.
This offers you unprecedented
opportunity to acquire
customers from around the world.
The catalog, we're proud to say,
now stands at more than one
million apps with thousands
more added on a weekly basis.
475,000 of those apps are made for the
beautiful larger palette of the iPad.
Taking a look at the
App Store catalog by content type,
you see that 54% of apps
available are iPhone only,
13% of apps available are iPad only,
and 33% are universal apps,
where one download works on
all of a customer's devices.
The catalog is tremendously active with
more than 90% of all apps available
being downloaded on a monthly basis.
And there's tremendous velocity
in this business with more than
800 apps downloaded per second.
That means at the end of
our 90 minute session here,
nearly four and a half million apps will
have been downloaded from the App Store.
Tremendous, tremendous velocity.
So that's the business update.
The next thing I'd like to cover
is an overview of the App Store so
that everybody understands how the
business is structured and managed.
First,
the App Store is a global business.
We're in 155 countries around the world,
but this is not just about
a distribution footprint.
This is also about a revenue opportunity.
61% of Apple's revenue comes
from outside the United States,
and this is a vastly different
percentage than from when
before the App Store launched.
We have hand-curated stores across the
world that accept local currency and
are programmed in the local language.
Here's our North and
South American stores.
There's an additional grouping
of Latin American countries.
Here's our stores in Europe.
There's also a grouping here of
additional European countries.
And lastly,
our stores in the Asia Pacific region,
and there's a grouping there that
covers additional Asian countries.
And our mission as a global
team is to help our customers.
And our mission as a global team is
to help our customers find great apps.
And this is a mission that we
feel grows in importance as the
catalog grows and as the number of
customers in the App Store grows.
And as I said, the way we do that is by
hand-curating the App Store.
Here's a couple pages from the App Store.
On the left, you see the featured page.
On the center, you see the recently
launched kids category page,
which is one of 24
categories in the App Store,
many of which are
hand-curated around the world.
And on the right,
you see the design for iOS 7 collection.
And on the left,
you see the latest version
of iOS 7 collection,
which is one of dozens and dozens
of thematic or seasonal collections
that have all the apps that you
might need for a particular topic.
On the iPad, the same curation,
just more real estate
for more great apps.
On a weekly basis,
our editors around the world are choosing
the best apps and the best games and
denoting them as editor's choice.
Here's a couple recent selections.
And the last bit about curation
that I'd like to cover is our
weekly free app of the week program.
Every week, a well-localized, paid,
universal app is made available
for free for our customers to
download all over the world.
Apple waves its royalties
for this program.
The developer waves their
royalties for this program.
And our customers have shown they
absolutely love getting free access
to a great piece of paid content.
Here's three additional
screenshots from the App Store.
A charts page on the left,
the recently launched popular
Near Me page in the center,
and a search results page on the right.
These pages are not
curated on the App Store.
The business has been around for
five years and we work with thousands
and thousands of developers and
not a week goes by that we don't
get the question from a developer,
how do I improve the placement of my app
in search results or how do I get my app
to show up in the popular Near Me page.
Well, while keywords can have an
influence in where your app
shows up in search results,
the most important thing that you as
a developer can do is build a great
app that our customers love and the
algorithms will take care of the rest.
So I want to conclude this part of
my presentation with an overview
of the App Store editorial process.
First and foremost,
our selections are based on
quality and quality alone.
We do not accept money for paid
placement in the App Store.
We've never accepted a single penny
and we have no plans to do so.
The process of choosing apps to feature
is separate from the app review process.
Apps are approved or rejected based
on their adherence to our publicly
available App Store review guidelines.
Just because your app is approved,
however, does not mean that your
app will be featured.
We consider apps from all 24 categories
with a particular focus on new apps or
evergreen apps with significant updates.
And then lastly,
while newly approved apps are added
to the store on a continual basis,
new featured content is published
by our team on a weekly basis,
typically Thursdays Pacific time.
So that's the App Store overview.
The next thing I'd like to dig
into are some best practices
to help you be successful.
And the first one we'll talk
about is your App Store presence.
This is your app name, your icon,
your screenshots, your description,
and your keywords.
These are things that if you're
heads down in development
are very easy to overlook,
but they're not difficult to do well
with a little time and attention.
So to help explain what I mean here,
let's use the popular music
identification app Shazam as an example.
First, the name Shazam.
It's unique, it's short, it's memorable,
and there's no keywords or
descriptives attached to their name.
And the icon,
it's beautifully designed and
instantly recognizable by a
user on their home screen.
Next, let's take a look at Shazam's
current screenshots in the App Store.
Your screenshot should tell a story and
you should avoid distracting graphics or
text overlaid on top of your screenshots
because your App Store presence is in
many ways your first introduction to our
customers of your brand and your product.
So Shazam, their first screenshot.
Identify music in as
little as one second.
It's very clear, it's very concise,
and it gives the core function.
It explains the core
function of your app.
It's the core function of
the Shazam app to customers.
The next screenshot shows you what a song
looks like after it's been identified.
You see the artist name,
you see the track title,
you see the artwork,
and you see a download on iTunes link.
The last two screenshots for Shazam
point out important features of the app.
The explore screenshot with the
thumbnails overlaid on top of
the map indicate that users can
find popular tracks by region,
and on the right,
real-time top tracks indicate that
users can find popular tracks by region.
It's self-explanatory.
Explain to the user that they
can discover tracks popular
across the entire Shazam system.
So next, let's take a look at
Shazam's app description.
Shazam recognizes music and
media playing around you.
Tap the Shazam button to
instantly match and then explore,
buy, and share.
You can Shazam as much as you want.
So this is taken from Shazam's
product page in the App Store.
And you can see it's
optimized for device,
where our customers shop.
App Store customers are not
shopping on the desktop.
They're shopping on the iPhone,
the iPod Touch, or the iPad.
And it's clear and concise.
They avoided listing all the
accolades that their app has received.
And they take advantage of those
first three or four lines to explain
in simple terms what their app does.
Next, let's take a look at some keywords.
I can't share with you exactly
what Shazam's keywords are
because they're confidential,
but let's look at some sample
keywords for a music app to help
you understand the difference
between bad keywords and good ones.
So, music, music discovery, track, song,
album, albums, and iTunes.
These are not very good keywords.
So, first, music.
If you don't need the category name
that your app resides in as a keyword.
Next,
you see album and albums are repeated.
Our system handles plural.
So, by inputting album as a keyword,
we would cover albums.
And then iTunes is not a good keyword
for Shazam because it's only okay
to use the name of a third party in
your keywords if your app uses an
API provided by that third party.
So here's a much stronger set
of keywords for a music app.
Artist, album, song, track, discovery,
new, streaming, and lyrics.
So that's your App Store presence.
Your name, your icon, your screenshots,
your description, and your keywords.
Again, these are not things
that are hard to do well.
You just need to give them
a little time and attention.
So next, business model.
How do you choose the right
business model for your app?
The first thing I want to talk
about is build a universal app.
And I can imagine that
you might be questioning,
well, isn't this a product decision?
How is this a business decision?
Well, it's absolutely a business
decision for a number of reasons.
First, our customers love the convenience
of being able to download one binary
that works on all of their devices,
as shown in this animation here.
And looking back at the pie chart,
breaking down the
App Store catalog by content type,
while we see growth in
all of the key metrics,
catalog size,
downloads and sales for iPhone apps,
iPad apps and universal apps,
by far we see the highest
growth for universal apps.
And the data shows that customers
are not inclined to purchase two
separate versions of the same product.
So next, choosing the right business
model for your product.
So there's not a single prescription
that I can stand up here and say that
applies to everybody in this room,
every product that you're building.
But I want to leave you with
some key takeaways that will
help you make a good decision.
So here are three of the
potential business models
available to you in the App Store.
On the left you see free apps,
which are typically ad supported
or support external services
like brick and mortar stores.
We see a lot of developers
taking their ad supported app and
adding a remove ads in app item.
And the key takeaway here is
that does not make your app
a freemium business model.
I'll spend some time talking about
freemium in just a few minutes,
but just keep that in mind.
Next we have traditional paid apps.
There's a lot of chatter in the
blogosphere these days that the market
for paid apps on the App Store is dead.
And I can tell you as someone who
looks at this data every single day,
that's completely not true.
Paid apps still represent
a very significant portion
of the App Store business.
There's no shortage of customers who
are willing to pay for the premium
experience and actually prefer
the premium experience where they,
for a single purchase price,
they get your entire app's
features and content.
And then lastly we have
what we call Paymium.
Paymium is a model where the parent
app is paid and there are in-app
skews for additional features,
content, services that give you an
opportunity for ongoing monetization
after that initial purchase.
Paymium is an excellent model,
especially for those developers
who've been asking for a path to
paid upgrades from the App Store.
So next I want to spend some
time talking about freemium.
Freemium is a big buzzword in
the App Store world these days.
Lots of press written about it.
And I want to give you some key
takeaways to make sure you make the
right decision if freemium is the
model that you're going to pursue.
So let's start with the definition.
Freemium is a business model where a
product or service is provided for free,
but money is charged
for advanced features,
functionality, or virtual goods.
So to my point about a remove
ads in app skew in your free app,
that would not classify
as a freemium app.
Freemium is a model that's been used by
a lot of developers who've seen success
with it from media distribution apps,
newsstand apps, social and dating apps,
and business productivity and finance
apps like the ones you see here.
But there's no pot of gold at
the end of the freemium rainbow.
It is not the right model for
every product in the App Store.
And if you look at the breakdown
of the catalog by business model,
you can see that nearly 90% of apps
available in the store are free.
And if you look at the breakdown
of the catalog by business model,
you can see that nearly 90% of apps
available in the App Store have a
business model that is not freemium.
And I'm sure many of you spend a lot
of time in the App Store and you see,
particularly on the top grossing charts,
there are a lot of freemium games in
particular on the top grossing charts.
But what you don't see
are all the well-made,
highly rated products that
chose the wrong business model,
freemium in particular,
and never made it to the charts.
So my goal here, again,
is to help you make the right
decision for your product.
And we've come up with a free,
framework that involves three questions
that you should consider as you assess
whether freemium is right for you.
So first, what are your target
market's expectations?
What I mean by this is don't try to
fit a square peg into a round hole
from a business model perspective.
Don't have a business model
that's inconsistent with what
your target market might expect.
So let's take an aviation app,
for example.
If you're building an app to
replace the heavy briefcases,
that pilots have been carrying
onto planes for decades,
the pilot's expectation is that
they're not going to be prompted to
pay for every different route or every
different emergency procedure or every
time there's an update to the content.
The expectation of a pilot for
that type of app is they'll pay
one price and they will get full
access to all of the content,
features, and services in that app.
In contrast,
if you're building a cloud storage app,
there is a target market expectation
for users of cloud storage services that
some amount of storage and some basic set
of features will be available for free.
And if you use that storage up or
you want more comprehensive features,
you'll be prompted to pay.
So there is a freemium model
does fit with the expectations of
users of cloud storage services.
So as we walk through this framework,
I want to also walk through the funnel,
the download funnel for freemium apps.
So at the top of the funnel,
you have downloads.
Being free will not make
everybody in the world,
every single app store customer,
download your app.
But it may expand your reach
within your target market.
The second piece of the framework is,
can you segment the experience
between free and paid?
If as a developer, you say,
you know what,
I don't care about free users.
I only want paid users.
That's completely fine.
That might be the right
decision for your business.
But if that's the case,
100% do not choose
freemium as your model.
Because the most successful freemium
products in the App Store are
providing a tremendous amount of
value to both free and paid users.
And the reason why is that
the path to monetization in
freemium is through engagement.
And that means if the first
time a user launches your app,
the first thing that they see is your
in-app store prompting them to pay,
they're going to delete your app
and move on to something else.
You're not doing yourself any
service at all by doing that.
You need to give users
a chance to get engaged.
And the way to do that in
a freemium product is by
providing them value for free.
Which brings us to the
next part of the funnel,
which are your retained users.
Obviously, this is a smaller percentage
than the number of users that
download your app initially.
And then the last piece of
the framework is do you have a
plan to create lasting value?
Again, the most successful freemium
products in the store are providing
long-term value to their users via
the inherent qualities of the app
themselves and as a developer through
a long-term roadmap to add features,
content, or services.
So if you've built something that is
only for periodic or one-time use,
chances are freemium is not
the right model for you.
Which again brings us to the
last piece of the funnel,
conversion.
The number of your retained
users that you convert.
And the math really is crucial to whether
you can be successful in freemium.
If you're building a niche product,
for example, that does not have a chance
to be downloaded millions
and millions of times,
you might see higher retention and
conversion and a higher average
spend and the math can work out.
In contrast, if you're building a product
that has potential to reach
millions and millions of people,
you might see a lower conversion
and a lower average spend,
but the math can still work out for
you because the numbers are so big.
So do the math.
It's important and will help
you determine whether freemium
is the right model for you.
So you've gone through the framework,
you've done the math, and you've decided,
yes, freemium is the right model for you.
So what are the next steps?
So a lot of this is just
reiterating what I've said earlier.
First, identify and focus on the
product that you're building.
Second,
identify and focus on your target market.
Again, being free will not make
everyone interested in your app,
but it may expand your reach
within your target market.
And make sure your business
model is consistent with what
your target market might expect.
Next, prioritize engagement
before monetization.
This speaks for itself.
Happy customers are the
ones that are likely to pay.
And if you have a paywall that
a user sees within a few seconds
after launching your app,
you're not giving them
a chance to get it.
So you're going to have
to be very careful.
And if you have a paywall that
a user sees within a few seconds
after launching your app,
you're not giving them
a chance to get it.
get happy and start getting
some value out of your app.
Next,
incorporate the business model into the
very early stages of your product design.
If you've built something
great and beautiful without any
regard to the business model,
and at the 11th hour you decide, oh,
this should be freemium,
and you put a paywall up,
chances are that's not going to
feel native or natural to the users.
And again,
they're not going to get engaged
and you're not going to give
yourselves a chance to monetize
that user in the long run.
So consider the business model from the
very early stages of your product design.
Next, track your metrics,
as I said earlier.
If freemium is not working for you,
don't be afraid to change the model.
Or if freemium is the right model
but the economy isn't quite right,
don't be afraid to tune your
economy after you've launched.
[ Transcript missing ]
So that's my discussion on freemium.
Next we'll talk a little
bit about pricing.
So the App Store runs
under the agency model.
That means you as developers
have full control over what
the price of your product is.
And the guidance we have is two-fold.
Be thoughtful.
Take a look at the competition.
The App Store is a very,
very competitive space.
There are lots of apps that do very,
very similar things.
And your pricing should be in line
with what your competition charges.
And then the key takeaway that I want to
leave you with is that you should be in
line with what your competition charges.
The only two successful price points
in the App Store are free and 99 cents.
And that's just not true at all.
Many,
many developers are seeing success at
higher price points in the App Store.
Consider price promotions.
These are sales.
Don't do sales all the time.
If you do that, customers will not be
inclined to buy your app.
They'll just be waiting
until the price gets lowered.
But well-timed price promotions
are a great way to grow your
business on the App Store.
[ Transcript missing ]
And then lastly,
don't plan on being featured by the
App Store as your marketing plan.
There are a lot of things that you
can do within your control to generate
momentum for your app in the App Store.
And my colleague Steve will
talk about that momentarily.
So you've launched your app.
Now what?
Well, first and foremost,
monitor the ratings and reviews.
We have extremely vocal
customers in the App Store.
They'll tell you what you're doing well.
They'll tell you what
you're not doing well.
You may discover some bugs and you might
get some good ideas for a future update.
So this might be a little bit
hard for some of you to read,
but this is a well-rated cooking app.
And this reviewer says that
the app is very well done,
but it's not useful for American cooks
because it's only in the metric system.
So through this review, there's a great,
easy-to-implement idea for
a future update to this app.
Add the imperial measurement
system so that it becomes a useful
product for the American market.
Next, update your apps.
Launching it and leaving it is not a
strategy for success in the App Store.
The market is too competitive.
Here's some real data from Evernote,
a popular productivity app,
and each orange star indicates a
significant update that Evernote
has made to their product.
They've had great momentum since
they launched on the App Store and
the additional investment that
they make in their product has
helped to build on that momentum.
Test your apps thoroughly so you
can avoid constant bug fixes.
The right timing for feature-rich
or content-rich updates is
roughly every four to six weeks.
Next, use push notifications and sharing.
Push notifications are a tremendous
way to bring people back to your app.
Avoid using them in ways that customers
may perceive as spam or marketing,
but well-timed,
well-written push notifications
are very effective to get
people engaged with your app.
And then on the right,
use our share sheets.
If people love using your app,
make it easy for them to
tell others about it as well.
Next, monitor your sales and trends.
This might seem obvious,
but you'd be surprised at how
many people aren't doing this.
There's a wealth of data available
to you in iTunes Connect,
and there's a vibrant third-party
ecosystem of services whose sole
existence is to help you optimize
your business on the App Store.
In particular,
you might find out by monitoring
your data that your app is doing
well in a market that you had no
idea that it was doing well in,
and there's a path for a future
update by adding a localization
for that particular market.
So that's my discussion
on best practices.
Next thing we'll talk
about is localization.
[ Transcript missing ]
So what should you localize?
Your app name, your app description,
your screenshots,
and all of the contents of your app.
Recommended languages.
So if you have a product,
not every product is globally relevant,
but if you have a product that has
a chance for that global relevancy,
this is the group of languages
we recommend you start with.
English, French, Italian, German,
and Spanish.
The Asian languages, Korean, Japanese,
traditional and simplified Chinese,
and then Brazilian, Portuguese, Russian,
Turkish, and Arabic.
This list is not prioritized.
It's not in alphabetical order.
It's just the set of languages
you should start with if your
product has global relevancy.
So it's all well and good for me
to stand up here and tell you to
localize that this is a global
business and you're missing out on
dollars to be made by not localizing.
I imagine you guys want some proof
that this actually makes a difference.
Well, today's your lucky day.
I do have some proof.
This is one of thousands and
thousands of examples I could
have shown you from the App Store.
I'm going to show you a
little bit of the results.
So this is a little bit of
a preview of the results.
that show that localizing your app
makes a difference in local markets.
And let's take a look at the charts.
Here's some recent charts from China,
Japan, and France.
With all but two exceptions here,
Clash of Clans and
Angry Birds Star Wars that have gone
the branding route with their app name,
every single app at the top of
the charts here is localized.
And on top of that,
our editors in local markets
around the world have an extremely
strong preference for promoting and
featuring apps in the local language.
So again, think globally, but be local.
And Apple provides a number of
resources to help you to do so.
There's the URL at the top.
On this page, you'll find some tips and
tricks for localizing,
as well as a list of third-party
localization vendors,
assuming you don't have the
linguistic expertise in-house to
localize into dozens of languages.
So that's my discussion on localization.
Last but not least,
and this is more or less a summary of
everything I've talked about today,
how do you get featured in the App Store?
First and foremost,
build something great,
build something unique
that our customers love.
Next, have a strong App Store presence.
These things matter.
When we feature an app,
we're putting our stamp of approval
on it and we want everything,
not just the app itself,
to look good and send a strong and
clear message to our customers.
Choose the right business
model and price thoughtfully.
Don't choose a business model or
a price that's out of line with
a competitive marketplace for
apps that you're competing with.
Offer your customers a universal binary.
Again,
we've sold a lot of iPads and unless
you're building something that
really is iPhone specific only,
like a running app or a jogging app,
we strongly encourage you
to build a universal app.
Localize in relevant markets.
And then lastly, let us know about it.
It always helps to hear from the
developer what you've built and why
you're proud of it and why you think
we should let our customers know.
So that's my discussion.
Thank you very much.
Now I'll turn it over to my
colleague Steve McGuigan who will
talk about App Store marketing.
Steve McGuigan Thank you, Alex,
and good afternoon.
My name is Steve McGuigan and I'm the
head of marketing for the App Store.
And you know, at Apple,
we spend a lot of time
thinking about apps.
And we think about the channels
that we can market them through.
And it varies from television to print
You'll see apps being marketed
through billboards throughout cities,
on bus stops.
You'll see them marketed through our over
400 retail locations around the globe
and our thousands of channel partners.
We spend a lot of energy marketing
apps on Apple.com or through the
hundreds of millions of emails
that we send on a monthly basis,
as well as through social media,
where we speak to nearly 11 million
fans and followers on Facebook and
Twitter on a daily basis.
But as Alex mentioned earlier,
you control much of your
success on the App Store.
Your success is not dependent
upon getting featured,
but of course it needs to
start with a great app,
which you've been learning
about how to build today,
but that success will be propelled
by having a great marketing plan.
And that's what I'm here
to talk to you about today.
I'm going to begin by talking about
three programs that we've created
to help you not only monetize,
but to help you promote your app.
I'll share with you some of the
resources we built to help you
make great marketing campaigns.
And then I'll conclude by talking
about the components that make up
a comprehensive marketing campaign.
So let's begin with the
programs and resources.
Now I've been hearing for quite a while
that developers have been asking for a
method to give away their paid apps for
free without making their apps freely
available to everybody in the App Store.
So I'm pleased to announce the
new App Store Code program.
The App Store Code Program provides you,
the developer,
the ability to market free offers to
customers using unique 12-digit codes.
Currently,
the program is focused on offering
paid apps downloaded for free.
Now these codes are different
than the promo codes that you can
request out of iTunes Connect.
Those, which we'll talk about later,
should be used for PR.
These codes should be used for
high volume marketing campaigns.
It's a completely free program.
You as a developer will waive your
70% royalty and we as Apple will
waive our 30% commission.
And when you receive these codes,
you can distribute them
digitally or physically.
I'll give you some examples
of this in a moment.
So what are the benefits
of such a program?
Well, first,
this will allow you to create
an impactful and a high value
marketing promotion that's going to
aid in not only user acquisition,
but also engagement.
The fact that these codes
are integrated into iOS,
it will create a simple, frictionless,
and a consistent user
experience for those redeemers.
So let me give you an example of what
one of these promotions could look like.
And this is a test we did with
Big Fish Games where they wanted
to distribute this offer digitally.
Big Fish Games has a popular
game called Fairway Solitaire,
and they wanted to target game
enthusiasts and golf enthusiasts,
so they went after a few popular
websites that addressed that market.
[ Transcript missing ]
So back to the redemption flow.
The customer taps on Get It Free,
at which point the App Store launches
and the customer enters in their
password for the App Store.
And that 12-digit code is automatically
populated in the redeem field.
So all that the customer has to do
is tap redeem and the app begins
downloading and the offer is complete.
So that's an example of
a digital distribution.
But here's an example of
a physical distribution.
And this was great.
Halfbrick came to us and they said,
we want to celebrate the
anniversary of Fruit Ninja,
obviously a very popular game.
And they wanted to do this by creating a
public event with a really high quality.
And what they came to us
with is this idea of a kiosk.
Where on this kiosk they had eight
iPads around the four corners of it
with a flat screen and customers could
come up and play with Fruit Ninja.
Now they would create signage
drawing people to this event.
They would keep scores of the
day trying to find who was
the best Fruit Ninja master.
Well, we love this so much.
They loved it so much they
created four of these kiosks and
put them in public venues around
Melbourne and Sydney and shopping
malls and parks and what have you.
And it created a ton of PR buzz
and a lot of great engagement.
Well, as people were playing Fruit Ninja,
they were given this little business
card size collateral that each card
had its own unique 12-digit code on it.
On the back, it explained to go into
the App Store and log in,
type in that unique 12-digit
code and tap redeem.
And again, the offer is complete.
So this is a really great example of a
great physical campaign that drove live
activation and Halfbrick really loved it.
So if you have an idea
for such a campaign,
we do have some requirements.
First,
we're looking for you to create a high
impact marketing campaign that's going
to drive a high redemption opportunity.
So somewhere in the neighborhood
of 100,000 codes or more.
[ Transcript missing ]
We want you to track your distribution
so we know how many codes you're
putting through which channels.
And then of course
you'll need our approval.
So in order to gain this approval,
drop us an email at
appstorecodes@apple.com and you'll
receive a template back from us that
will ask you to fill out describing
your campaign and what you want to do.
Once you receive our approval,
we'll send you an agreement.
You guys sign the agreement,
you send it back to us,
and then we'll provide you the
list of the unique 12-digit codes.
What's great about this program is
that you can track the performance of
it on a daily basis through the sales
and trends report you guys use today.
So you'll know the effectiveness
quite quickly of these campaigns.
So that's the App Store code program.
The second program is iAd.
iAd is Apple's digital
advertising platform.
We know you work very hard
to create a beautiful app,
and we don't want to see your experience
degraded with a poor ad experience.
And that's where iAd comes in.
iAd is now available in
14 countries worldwide,
where we just launched in three
new countries this week in Taiwan,
Hong Kong, and Ireland.
Now, there's two aspects to iAd.
There is the monetization side of iAd
and there's the promotion side of iAd.
So let me begin by talking
about the monetization side.
With iAd, you can monetize your app by
serving up iAds within your app.
By doing so,
you'll receive a 70% revenue share
for all the ads that you serve.
Now the iAd platform is both
flexible and noncompetitive.
And what I mean is that you can
go out and sell your own ads to
render in addition to those that
are being presented with an iAd,
but you also can block your competition
from showing up in your app.
If you don't want certain apps
to be marketed in your app or
certain brands to be marketed,
you have the ability to blacklist those.
The ads that will be served to you,
you can be assured that
they will be compelling,
rich media ads, as I said before,
not to degrade your own app experience.
And you can track the results in
real time through iTunes Connect.
You can look at the
impressions being served,
your clicks,
and the revenue being generated.
So that's the monetization side.
But in order to get started here,
there's only three things you need to do.
First, go into iTunes Connect and
complete your iAd contract.
Second,
enable the iAd framework within your app.
And then third, you just submit your app
into the app review team.
So let's move over to the promotion
side and how you can use iAd
to drive downloads of your app.
And with that, you use iAd Workbench.
We announced iAd Workbench
at WWDC this last summer,
and it's your do-it-yourself campaign
creation and management tool.
When it was announced this summer,
it was only available in the US,
but as of this week,
we now have iAd Workbench available
in those same 14 countries.
Again, there's now two sides of
the iAd Workbench product.
There's the campaign creation
and there's the analytics.
So let me explain to you quickly how to
create a campaign within iAd Workbench.
create a campaign within IAD Workbench.
There's only five steps.
First, you need to select the app
that you want to promote,
which is your app.
Second, you need to select your audience.
Now for the non-marketers in the room,
we make it very simple.
You can select the automatic
targeting and the integration
that iAd has with the App Store,
we will automatically find
the best customers for you.
Now for you marketers here in the room
that want to do your own targeting,
there's eight different criteria at
which you can target your campaigns,
whether it's gender or sex or
city or interest with various
categories within the App Store.
A number of different criteria.
Next, you need to set your budget.
Tell iAd how much you want
to spend over how many days.
And then upload your creative.
Again, if you're not the creative
type and you don't know how
to create a great banner ad,
we provide four templates
that you can use.
And there's various iterations of that
with color and font that can make it
look really unique to your own campaign.
And then finally, submit it.
You'll get response within
24 hours whether or not your
campaign's been approved and
then you can begin to run it.
Now, we provide a dashboard where you can
get a macro view of your account.
You can monitor your campaigns
or initiate new ones.
But you also can get detailed
statistics of your campaign.
You can look at specific time periods
and metrics such as your spend,
your impressions, your downloads,
your tap-through rates, your CPC,
all this various stuff.
And then you can also download
these metrics as a CSV from any
screen if you want to integrate it
into your own analytics package.
There was an entire hour-long
session about iAd presented.
So, we have a lot of resources online.
We have a lot of
resources online at WWDC,
which I don't have time to go through.
But we have plenty of resources online.
And in the lab next door,
we have the iAd staff available to
you so you can ask any questions
about either getting set up or
launching your own campaign.
So, that's iAd.
Let me talk about the third program,
which is our affiliate program.
Now,
our affiliate program allows you to earn
a 7% commission when promoting content,
whether it's your own apps, other apps,
or other content we have
in iTunes such as TV,
movies, music, and books.
But what many developers don't know is
that you can use our affiliate program
to track your marketing performance.
I'll explain how to do
that in the next slide.
But along those lines,
you have the ability to track the sales
of both your paid and your free apps.
So we are just now launching
a new program partner in PHG.
So we'll have a single partner for
over 100 countries around the globe.
And one of the big benefits of
this new partnership is that
there's a new easy link structure.
So gone are the days of that
very long affiliate URL.
You simply just take the URL of your
app from the App Store and append
your affiliate token that you receive
once you're approved into the program.
That's all you really need to do to
begin generating that 7% commission.
But what I would love you guys to use
is the new campaign tracking we have.
And this will tell you a lot
about your campaign performance.
By appending the campaign
token at the end of the URL,
you have a 40-character
string you can enter in.
So whether you want to measure the
performance of an email or measure
the performance of a web campaign,
whatever it is,
you can append it to the end of
that campaign and get those detailed
statistics of how that campaign is doing.
With this new partnership with PHG,
we've now localized our
resources into 24 languages,
and you now can receive payment
in the currency of your choice
of over 100 different currencies.
Now the affiliate program offers
a number of additional tools.
We can create banners for any
of the store content for you.
We can create interactive widgets
so your customers can search
for content within the store.
We provided a search API, RSS feeds,
and even our enterprise partner feed,
which allows you to download
all the metadata for any bit of
content we have in the store.
So that's it for this
episode of the App Store.
Thanks for watching.
We'll see you next time.
Bye.
That's the affiliate program.
Next, I want to talk about the developer
marketing resources we're providing you.
A simple way to get there is to
go to appstore.com/marketing.
Within there, we have the
App Store marketing guidelines,
high resolution assets of
our device images and our
badges for you to download,
and then a link to a number of tools.
So first, what is the
App Store marketing guidelines?
Well, we just revamped these,
and this week we've now
localized it into Spanish,
Italian, German, and French.
Additionally,
we've done simplified Chinese,
traditional Chinese, and Japanese,
and we're going to be launching
some additional languages soon.
But these guidelines were created
to give you advice and direction on
how best to market your apps using
the assets that we're providing you.
These assets include the
App Store badges and our device images.
So let me talk about both
of those very briefly.
The first is the App Store badge.
We now have a single App Store badge,
which is downloaded on the App Store.
And the App Store customer
knows this as a call to action,
that when they see it,
that your app is live on the
App Store and to use this
to go download your app.
And we encourage you to use
it in all of your marketing.
But when you're doing so,
place it in a subordinate position.
The most important thing for you
to do is to talk about your app.
Lead with your app name.
Talk about the features.
Talk about the devices that it's
on and can conclude with the
App Store badge as that call to action.
We've localized the badge
now into 38 languages.
So as you follow Alex's advice
and work on localizing your app,
you now have the ability to create
this call to action in all of
your marketing around the globe.
Now the Apple device images.
We have now provided the
white versions of the devices.
So now you have black and
white for both iPhone,
iPad and iPod Touch.
And we encourage you to use
it in all of your marketing.
But when you're using
this in your marketing,
I encourage you,
please use actual screenshots.
Don't use iPad as a
frame for your trailer,
you know, unless you're a trailers app.
But find the most inspiring screenshots
that describe what your app is and
place those in the device images.
And please do not cover up your beautiful
apps with marketing violators such
as download today or available now.
Just really let the app speak for itself.
Now if the creative direction you're
going down doesn't allow for you to
use the device images we provide,
you have the full right to take your
own photography and videography.
And we provided you some great tips
and tricks on how to do that within
the App Store marketing guidelines.
So I'm going to conclude my
talk this afternoon about the
components of what makes up a
comprehensive marketing campaign.
Now there are a number of
channels that I want you to
consider in marketing your app.
But I've bucketed them into
two different buckets for you.
The first are owned channels.
And in many cases,
these are free channels to you.
So independent of your marketing budget,
you can be successful in these channels
as long as you put enough energy and
do some great work to support those.
And I'll conclude by talking
about some paid channels.
So let's begin with social media.
Now, through each of these channels,
I'm going to provide you some real
great tips to really help you be
successful in these various areas.
But with social media,
it should not be an afterthought.
You need to think about how
you're going to integrate social
media into not only your app,
but what your content
strategy is going to be.
So we'll start with the
integration with your app.
And Alex touched on this first earlier.
Use the share sheet that
we provide in iOS 7.
That's probably the simplest way you
can get people to share content from
within your app on Facebook and Twitter.
But also think about how you can
leverage the social media networks
to drive content back to your app.
And I really like what
RunKeeper has done here.
They give RunKeeper's customers,
their friends,
the ability to cheer them on
as they're going for a run.
By posting on Facebook or Twitter,
you can hear that as you're going for
your run to help motivate you as you run.
But then you need to think
about your content strategy.
As you build out your
brand on social media,
there's three things
I want you to think about.
First, remember,
the content that you're putting
out there is going to be nestled
amongst the content of your
customers' friends and family.
So be conversational, be engaging,
don't just continually try to sell, sell,
sell.
Make sure that your content would flow
within the newsfeed of your customers.
And then think about how you can get
the customer to arrest the thumb.
We all do this.
We go through our newsfeeds very,
very quickly.
But what is that bit of content?
What is that copy?
What is that photo that's going
to grab somebody's attention?
And when you see something
like this from RunKeeper,
you're thinking,
why is there a heart on here?
Well,
you realize that you can go out there,
this was celebrating a holiday,
but the fact that you can go
out there and run this route,
I thought was a really engaging post.
And when you're looking
for that engagement,
you're trying to get your
customers to share your content.
You want to drive that virality.
But what do people want to share?
Well, they share what's inspirational
to them or what's aspirational.
So think about that copy
that does both that,
inspires and aspires.
So that's social media.
Let's move forward to email.
Email, in many cases,
is the first time you're going
to be communicating with your
customer outside of the App Store.
So think very hard about what that
first communication is going to be.
You don't want to offend them.
You don't want them to think
it's just a sales channel.
You want them to keep you
out of their spam folder.
So that first email is
extremely important.
That second email, that third email,
put together a strong email campaign.
and target your communications.
There's two things you can do here.
One, segment your subscriber base.
Think about those emails you want to
send about maybe account management
separately from those about app updates
depending on where you know your customer
is in the life cycle of your app.
But you also can target your
communications by platform.
You know this is an
iPhone or an iPad user,
so speak to them as an
iPhone or an iPad user.
Alex Rofman
Be useful.
Don't continually try to sell.
Think about the kind of content
you can provide in an email that's
going to want that person to engage.
I love this one from Trippet because
this is an email I definitely want.
If my flight is going to be delayed,
I want to know that.
Think about how you can support
your social media strategy.
Provide links in your emails
allowing people to follow you on
Facebook and Twitter or other networks.
Optimize your email for the
devices it's being viewed on.
Don't try to cram that large
desktop email into the small
form factor in an iPhone.
Use proper image sizes and font sizes.
Next, let's talk about your website.
I know you all have them,
but we introduced a technology in
iOS 6 called Smart App Banners.
I would love to see more of
you take advantage of this.
You simply have to add one
line of code to your website.
With that line of code,
it will detect when customers are
coming to you from an iOS device.
When that happens,
a banner ad is presented
at the top of your page.
And the call to action varies depending
upon where your customer is as far
as their relationship with you.
So in this case, if the customer does not
have Sky Guide installed,
the call to action says View in
the upper right-hand corner.
And when they tap on View,
they're taken into the
App Store to download your app.
Now if the customer does
have your app installed,
it says Open.
And when they tap on Open,
it launches your app.
It's important to optimize
your website for the smaller
form factor of the iPhone,
again, by using the proper image
sizes and font sizes.
And we encourage you to use
multiple install points.
Again, use the App Store badge as a
call to action to get people to
tap on it to download your app.
Support that social media
strategy by allowing people
to follow you on social media.
And then finally,
include an FAQ and links to your customer
care center so that customers can contact
you if there's an issue rather than
leaving you bad reviews on the App Store.
So the next channel is cross promotion.
Now for you developers in the audience
that have multiple apps on the App Store,
you are at a severe advantage to those
that don't because you already have
an audience that you can speak to.
But please, be thoughtful when you're
cross promoting your apps.
The More Apps menu is a
popular way of doing it,
and I like how Yahoo has done this.
By tapping on the hamburger menu,
they are then presenting
all the Yahoo apps,
which then the customer can then tap on,
and then they're taken directly
into the App Store to download.
It's a very thoughtful implementation.
We also see the use of tickers now.
And this is an example
with the Sims Free Play.
This is not an intrusive ad in any way.
The streaming ticker at the
bottom is talking about FIFA 14,
the benefits of it.
You can tap on it and then
you can be taken into the
App Store to download that app.
[ Transcript missing ]
Now,
if you do want to write a press release,
make sure you can support and
substantiate your claims and
please send us your press release.
We'd be happy to review it.
If you send it to
pressreleases at apple.com,
we'll get to you within five
business days and give you our
thoughts on the press release.
So the last own channel that
I want to talk about is trailers.
And I got to tell you,
I really like what I'm
seeing with app trailers.
They are really been taken
to the next level with a
really high production value.
But because I'm seeing so many of them,
it's really important that you
follow a few tips and tricks.
The first thing is to think about those
first six seconds of your trailer.
You don't need to open your trailer
with your company logo and your
license source logo and various things.
Get into the beauty of your app to get
people to want to watch your videos.
And then watch the rest of your trailer.
Keep your trailer to
about 30 to 60 seconds,
because that's about all the
time you have to keep somebody's
attention span on a trailer.
And then use professional
capturing tools.
Gone are the days where your friend
sits over your shoulder with a
camcorder trying to watch you record
your experience on the iPhone.
Use digital capturing tools,
and there's a number of really great
ones out there in the market today.
And support that capture
with a great soundtrack.
Whether it's music or a voiceover,
that is really going to
add a lot to your trailer.
You're going to want to
provide a clear call to action.
And then finally,
ensure that your trailer
is globally appropriate.
And there's two aspects of this.
First is price.
If you market the app here
and saying that it's in so
many euros or what have you,
that doesn't mean a lot to an American or
somebody in Japan or what have you,
because they don't understand
the currency conversion.
But also, that's going to limit you to do
any price promotions in the future.
So I just recommend leaving pricing
out of your trailer unless your app
The second component to globally
appropriateness is the content.
The levels of offensive
content vary around the globe,
so just err on the side of caution and
make sure that it's okay for all to see.
Now the example I'm going to show
you here of a great trailer that's
really done an exceptional job of
doing all these things is from an
Italian developer called Music Match.
So I'll play it here.
Home, mountain, home,
the Lord shines upon you   And your
rugged peaks glow from heaven's
light   From heaven's light
Looking in search of a better life,
the miners we have   Granddaddy
came from the Tennessee hills
With a clothesline that's
back in a five-pillar bill
[ Transcript missing ]
So I guess a little humor
doesn't hurt either.
These guys did a great job.
We shared it on our Facebook page
and it had one of our most highly
engaged posts in quite a while.
So great work there.
So I'm going to conclude by talking
about three of the paid channels.
And the first are mobile ads.
Now I touched on a lot of
this in the iAd discussion,
but briefly,
the reason mobile ads work so well,
as many of you know,
is that with mobile ads,
it's the fewest taps
away from an install.
As you're engaged with an app or
engaged with a mobile website,
you can simply tap on the banner ad and
be taken directly into the App Store.
You can use mobile ads not
just for your user acquisition,
but also to help build your brand.
And one of the big benefits about mobile
ads is the targeting capabilities.
You can target by device, by demographic,
by interest, by gender, many,
many different things.
So that's a real benefit to mobile ads.
But I want you to think about
is you're creative when you're
doing your mobile ad campaigns.
And not the same piece of
creative works everywhere.
So think about the channel
at which you're putting this
creative through and customize it.
It works on Facebook.
It works great to use live action photos,
maybe versus screenshots
and what have you.
And then the last thing
is to test your creative.
I know of some developers that
will create upwards of 50 pieces of
creative for one single campaign.
And they quickly test in real time how
it's performing and they'll continue to
invest in those pieces that work well.
The second channel is print.
And I know print can get expensive,
but for those that do engage within it,
I want to share with you a few tips.
And I feel the New York Times has
really done a great job with
this print campaign here.
First, they're connecting visually by
using our devices in their campaign.
They're speaking to the iPhone and iPad
customer by providing those images.
[ Transcript missing ]
The second is they're using an action
verb such as download or search.
And then finally,
they're using their App Store URL.
And this is something that every one
of you in this room have access to.
You have your own vanity URL,
which is appstore.com/yourappname
or appstore.com/developername.
And we encourage you to use these
URLs in any of your offline marketing,
whether that's print, broadcast,
whatever that might be.
It's very memorable.
And if somebody sees it,
they can remember to go to
that URL to download your app.
So the final channel I want to
chat with you about is television,
which I know is extremely expensive,
but I'm seeing some great campaigns
around the world and some great
ones here in Europe particularly.
What makes television so effective is
the fact that the devices are at hand.
While you're watching television,
your iPhone's in your pocket,
your iPad is on your lap,
and if it's a compelling enough piece,
you will get people to convert.
It's important to share
those magic moments with
television more than anything.
What are the most magical things
about your app that you can tell
your customer in those 30 seconds?
What makes television so effective is
the fact that the devices are at hand.
While you're watching television,
your iPhone's in your pocket,
your iPad is on your lap,
and if it's a compelling enough piece,
you will get people to convert.
It's important to share
those magic moments with
television more than anything.
While you're watching television,
your iPhone's in your pocket,
your iPad is on your lap,
and if it's a compelling enough piece,
you will get people to convert.
Now you can watch your favorite
Travel Channel shows anywhere,
anytime on your iPad and iPhone.
That's so fantastic.
Download the free
Watch Travel Channel app now at
appstore.com/watchtravelchannel.
Create your own personal
watch list of full episodes.
Stay in touch with your favorite hosts.
Are you ready for this?
And get inspiration for your next trip.
Good morning, Key West.
Every destination begins with
the new Watch Travel Channel app
for your iPad and iPhone.
Really easy to activate against that
as you're watching that commercial
on TV by thinking about that URL.
So they've done a great job there.
So I want to leave you
with an email address.
I want you all to know.
It's appstoremarketingatapple.com.
We have a global team of marketers
that are here to help you.
If you want to send us any
questions about your marketing,
we'd love to see any creative that
you're working on before you finalize it.
Drop us an email.
We'll respond to you
within five business days.
So with that, I'm going to conclude.
I'm going to hand things over to
Shannon to talk about iTunes Connect.
Thank you.
Thanks, Steve.
Hi, my name is Shannon, and I work on the
App Store operations team.
You've been hearing a lot of great
tips about choosing the right business
model and how to best market your app.
I'm going to talk about how you
can execute on some of these
tips through iTunes Connect.
So I know that all of you have at
least one app on the App Store,
so you should be very
familiar with iTunes Connect.
And you should understand that it
is the gateway to the App Store.
It's the website you use to
create and manage your apps,
request your promo codes,
check your sales and financial reports,
and much more.
I'm going to cover three
major topics today.
First, I'll go over some recently
launched and valuable features.
Second, I'll show you how you can execute
on your plans to localize your app.
And finally,
I'll leave you with three tips and
tricks that can help you manage
your business more effectively.
So let's start with our
first valuable feature,
promo codes.
We provide you with 100 promo
codes for each app version.
This was recently increased from 50.
And they're set up so that
you can request them as you
need them in any denomination.
As Steve mentioned,
we encourage you to reserve these
codes for your media contacts,
journalists, influencers,
who can try out your app before it's
available to the general public and
write about it to help you promote it.
And up until recently,
you were only able to request promo
codes in the ready for sale state.
But I'm happy to announce today that
you can now request promo codes in the
pending developer release date as well.
This is very exciting because now you
can promote the new features of your app
updates before they're released instead
of just the first version of your app.
The second feature I want
to cover is app transfer.
App transfer was a very exciting
launch for us this year at WWDC.
And it's the ability to transfer an app
from one developer account to another.
So what are some of the reasons
you might use app transfer?
The App Store has been in
business for five years now.
And many of you have
seen phenomenal success.
You may have had the opportunity to
sell your app to another developer
or to Or you may have acquired a
great app from another developer.
or maybe some of you have registered
multiple developer accounts with
Apple and you'd like to consolidate
those accounts to be managed as one.
If you're in any of these situations,
app transfer is a great solution for you.
And what are some of the
benefits of app transfer?
One of the greatest things about app
transfer is that it is completely
seamless to your customers,
which means that there's no interruption
in the ability to use the app,
and new customers can continue
to purchase the app as well.
You get to retain all
of your chart placement,
your customer ratings and reviews,
and the ability to update
the app for your customers.
And there are really just minimal
visible changes to the app on the store.
The only thing that changes on
the store is the seller name.
So I'd like to walk through a flow
just to show you what this looks like.
First, as the current owner,
you'll log into iTunes Connect,
select the app you wish to transfer,
and enter in the new owner information.
That is the Apple ID of the team agent
and the team ID of the new owner account.
Then Apple will draw up a contract
agreement between you and the new owner.
And once you've signed this agreement,
the app moves into a sub-state
called Pending App Transfer.
If your app is ready
for sale at this time,
customers can continue to purchase as all
of this is going on in the background.
Then as the new owner,
you'll receive an email letting you
know that a transfer has been made.
letting you know that a
transfer is waiting acceptance.
You'll log into iTunes Connect and
you'll be required to enter
in some new app metadata.
I'll go into detail about
this in just a minute.
You'll then sign the same agreement and
the app will move into processing app
transfer where it's literally moving
from the current owner to the new owner.
Now there are some rules regarding
app transfer that I'm just going to
go over a few of them that you should
know before transferring an app.
You want to agree to any
available contract amendments.
From time to time,
Apple updates the terms of
the program license agreement
or the paid apps contract.
You just want to make sure that
you've agreed to these terms
before transferring an app.
And the app will need to have at
least one approved app version.
You will not be able to transfer an app
that is currently in review and that
includes in-app purchase reviews as well.
So as the current owner,
what are some things you should have
ready before initiating an app transfer?
You'll need to collect
the new owner information.
As I mentioned,
that is the Apple ID of the team agent.
This is not the password,
just the username they use to log in.
And the team ID of the new owner.
The team ID is a unique identifier
for your developer account.
We also encourage you to
back up your app history.
Once the app is transferred,
it's completely gone out of
your iTunes Connect account,
so you won't have access
to this information.
[ Transcript missing ]
The second feature I want to talk
about is alternate price tiers.
We recently introduced some additional
tiers for you to assign to your
paid apps or in-app purchases.
And these tiers are great
for being able to vary your
pricing in different currencies.
There are five new tiers for your use.
And these new tiers are
completely market optimized,
which means they're culturally
relevant and consumer friendly to
the customers in those markets.
And there are no restrictions,
meaning that you can assign
them to any of your apps.
And the great thing about the
App Store being on the agency
model means that you can change
your pricing at any time.
These tiers also map to existing
US dollar tiers as they are today.
Something to note is that we currently
only support the selection of
these tiers through iTunes Connect.
We don't support the assignment
of these tiers through any other
delivery method such as the
import from file functionality.
And we also support the
application loader or the
XML feed through Transporter.
But I do want to point out where
you can select these tiers.
This is the rights and
pricing page of the app.
And you can see that the alternate
tiers are listed down at the
bottom of the price tier list.
And just to illustrate
what this looks like,
for an example,
if my app is priced at tier one,
you can see that that's 99
cents in the US dollar and 69
pence in the British pound.
However, if I select alternate tier one,
the price remains 99
cents in the US dollar,
but is now 99 pence in the British pound.
This may be a little bit of a
higher price for the customer,
but it is a more culturally
relevant price point.
And to give you some more examples,
tier one in the Euro is 89 Euro,
but alternate tier one is 99 Euro.
And in the Chinese RMB,
tier one is six RMB.
And alternate tier one is eight RMB.
So we encourage you to check out
these new tiers and see what works
for your app and your business model.
The last feature I want to
talk about is automation.
We know that your time as
developers is very valuable,
and we do all that we
can to save you time,
especially when it comes to
repetitive actions in iTunes Connect.
So there's two areas of automation that
I want to cover that I think will be
very helpful in saving you some time.
The first area of automation
is auto-ingesting your reports.
We provide you with a command line tool
that allows you to automate the delivery
of your reports from iTunes Connect.
And it's been available for
your sales and trends reports,
but we recently expanded it to
include the payment reports as well.
And it just allows you to download
your reports without actually having
to log into iTunes Connect each time.
So in order to use this tool,
you'll first download the auto-ingestion
class file at the URL here.
Then you'll change your
directory location to the one
that you're using for your app.
You'll first download the auto-ingestion
class file at the URL here.
Then you'll change your directory
level to point to the class file.
And you'll need to create a properties
file for your login credentials.
That is your iTunes Connect Apple ID and
your iTunes Connect password.
The great thing about this
properties file is that it allows
you to put a little more security
around your login credentials as
you used to enter this information
directly into the command line.
So it just allows your password
to be a little bit more secure.
And I'll walk through what this command
looks like for each of the reports so you
know how to do this for your own account.
This is the command
for the sales reports.
And all of the information
in the angle brackets will be
replaced with your own values.
And the parameters will be
delimited with the space.
You'll start by entering your vendor ID.
This is another unique identifier
for your developer account.
And this one in particular
can be found in the contracts,
tax, and banking module.
Then you'll indicate the report type.
For this standard sales report,
you'll enter sales.
Or if you're a newsstand developer and
you're looking for a new sales report,
you'll enter sales.
Or if you're a newsstand
developer and you wish to
download the newsstand reports,
you'll enter newsstand.
Next,
you'll indicate the reporting timeframe.
That's going to be the daily, weekly,
monthly, or yearly interval.
And the report subtype will be
summary for the standard sales report,
detailed for the newsstand report,
or if you're using
auto-renewable subscriptions,
you may be collecting personal
information from your customers
who have chosen to share
this information with you,
and you can download these
reports using opt-in.
Finally, you'll indicate the date range,
and this is the exact date for
the report you wish to download.
This field is optional,
and if you do not indicate a date,
we'll just provide you with the
latest available report for the
parameters you've indicated.
Similarly, this is the command for
the payment reports,
and you'll start by
entering the same vendor ID,
but for the payment reports,
you need to include two leading
zeros in front of your vendor ID.
Then, since the payment reports
are not available,
you'll need to include two leading
zeros in front of your vendor ID.
Finally, you'll indicate the
reporting region code,
and if you need to access a
list of these region codes,
there is one available in the
Payments and Financial Reports user
guide in iTunes Connect.
And the report type is
always going to be DRR,
which is the standard report
type for the payment reports.
And finally, you'll enter the fiscal
year and fiscal period.
If you need to access a copy
of Apple's fiscal calendar,
there is one available in the
Payments and Financial Reports model.
module on iTunes Connect.
So that's auto-ingesting your reports.
And the second area of automation
I want to cover is Apple's command
line tool called Transporter.
Transporter allows you to automate
the delivery of your metadata,
and it gives you the ability to
integrate with your own content
management system if you have one.
We recently introduced the ability
to deliver your rights and pricing
changes through Transporter.
You can request catalog reports,
and you can deliver your app metadata,
which can be extremely helpful
when localizing your app.
This brings me to the next
topic of localization setup.
We've been talking about how you
should think global and be local.
And you know that the App Store is
in 155 countries worldwide,
and we offer you 28 languages for setting
up localizations with your metadata.
We highly recommend using
professional localization resources.
As Alex mentioned earlier.
And we advise against using
automated translation services
you might find on the web,
as they may translate your content,
but don't fully localize it
to be culturally relevant.
We also encourage you to localize
your app wherever possible.
Alex showed a great example of Evernote,
where they localized everything,
including their screenshots.
And we know that this can be a lot of
fields to enter into iTunes Connect,
but it's really important to do so.
And that's why the XML feed
can be very helpful as well.
Before I go into detail about that,
I do want to point out one other
thing about localization setup.
And that's that you are required
to submit your app for review
when you add new localizations.
So just make sure that you
leave enough time for the review
process if you do wish to add
new localizations for your app.
So for those of you who wish
to cut down on the repetitive
actions that localizing can bring,
we encourage you to adopt the
automated process of XML feed delivery.
And the steps for using Transporter
and the XML feed are fairly simple.
You can start by looking up your existing
metadata from the Apple database.
And that will provide you with your
current app metadata in the format
that it will need to be uploaded.
Then you can make any necessary changes.
And after making your changes,
you can run Transporter in verify mode,
which allows you to check your changes
against our XML specifications.
Then you can upload your content.
And it's ready to be delivered
with your next update.
You will still need to create your
new app versions in iTunes Connect.
And you'll want to monitor
your state transitions,
as this cannot be done
through Transporter.
And I'm not going to walk through a demo.
But I do want to point you to some of
the documentation available in the Manage
Your Apps module of iTunes Connect.
And I want to encourage you to check out
the WWDC session video from this year
called What's New in iTunes Connect.
They go in a little bit more detail.
And they do a full end-to-end
demo of what this looks like.
So if you're interested in
watching this session video,
you can access it from
the developer portal.
And we know that once you've set
up localizations in iTunes Connect,
you like to see what this looks
like for your customer on the store.
Because we get a lot of questions
about what this looks like.
One thing I want to point out,
this is the Pages app for an example.
And we get a lot of questions about the
list of languages that appears in the
information section on the app page.
This list of languages is not
the list of languages you've
set up in iTunes Connect.
This list of languages comes from
the lproj folder in your binary and
is meant to be the languages that
you have localized your app into for
when the customer has downloaded it.
The localizations that you set up
in iTunes Connect are automatically
displayed on the App Store based on the
customer's OS language and storefront.
And they'll automatically display here.
So just to take a look at what
a couple different localizations
look like on the App Store,
here are a few examples.
And you can see how great
this looks for the customers.
I'd like to leave you with a few
tips and tricks that will help you
run your business more effectively.
Tip number one is regarding viewing
your localizations on the device.
We just saw what this
looks like on the desktop,
but it can be a little bit trickier
to view this on the device.
So I'll walk you through how
to change your iOS language
and storefront on the device.
You'll start by entering
multitasking mode in order
to quit out of the App Store.
Next, you'll go to General in your
settings and tap International.
Then tap Language.
And then this is where you can select the
iOS language that you wish to change to.
For this example, I'm choosing Chinese.
So select the language, then tap Done.
After that,
you'll go back to the App Store,
and if you're logged into
your personal iTunes account,
you'll want to sign out,
and then you'll tap the
Sign In button again.
Here you can see that the language
has started to change to Chinese.
And I don't personally speak Chinese,
but I know that the third line here is
the option to create a new Apple ID.
And this is where the trick comes in.
You don't actually have
to create a new Apple ID,
but you will start
walking through the flow.
So tap the option to
create a new Apple ID.
And then you'll be prompted
to select a storefront.
This is where you can select
the territory that you wish
to change your store to.
And for this example, I'll choose China.
At this point, you can tap cancel to
exit out of the flow.
Once you exit out of the flow,
your storefront will automatically
change to the territory you've selected.
So now that we're in
the China App Store with
our iOS set to Chinese,
if we search for the Pages app,
we'll see the localization
set up for Pages.
Tip number two is regarding
tracking your customer reviews.
Alex talked about how important tracking
your reviews can be for your business.
And while you can do
this on the App Store,
we also encourage you to check
this out on iTunes Connect.
This page can be located
from the app summary page.
And the great thing about viewing
your customer reviews in iTunes
Connect is that you can easily toggle
between the different territories.
Since customer reviews are specific
to each of the different territories,
you can easily toggle between
the different territories.
And you can access and
subscribe to an RSS feed,
which allows you to receive instant
feedback when customers post new reviews.
And tip number three is our
advice for scheduling a sale.
The App Store is a global
marketplace and we operate in
different international time zones.
What this means is that pricing and
availability changes happen at different
times in different countries in
different time zones across the globe.
And it's what we call a rolling price
and availability setting because
the change begins propagating in
one area of the world and rolls
across over a period of time.
So to illustrate this,
let's take a look at a map.
And I'll use a price
change as an example.
Let's say my app is paid and I wish
to run a 24-hour sale where customers
can download my app for free.
When the change begins,
the app will first fall to free in the
New Zealand and South Pacific region,
followed by the Asia Pacific region.
Then, Australia, Russia, India,
and the Middle East.
Next, Africa, Europe, and Latin America.
And finally,
the change will happen in North America.
And because of this rolling schedule,
we recommend that if you
wish to run a 24-hour sale,
that you actually set it up for
three days in iTunes Connect.
This will ensure that the change
will fully propagate for a full
24 hours in each territory.
And just to show you what this
looks like in iTunes Connect,
you can see here that I've set the change
to begin on the 10th and end on the 13th.
So that concludes our session for today.
I want to thank you for your time.
Here's a list of some of the
resources we went over today.
And if you have any questions,
I encourage you to come ask us
in the lab about any of your
marketing or distribution questions
or to visit any of the others.
We're going to take a short
break and we'll start up again
in about five minutes with more
on architecting modern apps.